---
layout: single
title: Research
permalink: /research/
author_profile: true
---

My research focuses on how individuals' attitudes and behavior regarding racial politics and interracial relations are shaped by their social identities and political contexts. I explore these relationships in two domains central to modern-day American racial politics and public policy: (1) how descriptive representation distinctly matters, independently from partisan representation, as a strategy to advance racial representation when party and race are correlated, and (2) the conditions under which government and social interventions to reduce racial prejudice and discrimination are effective and why. 

**How Descriptive Representation Matters for Racial Representation**

Party and race are highly correlated in the modern-day American political system where the two major political parties are polarized both ideologically and racially. Scholars have shown that this holds not only for Blacks but increasingly also for Latinos and Asians as well. In this context, there is need to interrogate canonical theories about the political importance of descriptive representation as a strategy to advance racial representation. The first stream of my research program addresses this need by examining the conditions under which descriptive representation uniquely matters -- above and beyond partisan representation -- to advance the representational goals of underrepresented racial minority groups.

Specifically, this line of research seeks to unsettle two arguments in the racial and ethnic politics literature about the politics of descriptive representation. 

First, I challenge the argument that descriptive representation is paramount to and valued by racial minorities, even at the expense of other welfare-improving forms of representation, given its symbolic importance. I examine how individuals evaluate trade-offs between descriptive racial and partisan representation in a racial redistricting choice setting where creating majority-minority districts results in the creation of additional Republican districts and, in some cases, causes Republicans to gain majority control of a legislature.  Contra dominant expectations in the literature, I find that among those facing this trade-off (i.e., who prefer to elect more minorites and more Democrats), preferences for descriptive representation do not strictly dominate preferences for partisan representation and that trade-off evaluations do not differ between either Blacks or Latinos and whites after controlling for subjects' baseline preferences for descriptive and partisan representation. Strikingly, I find that among those facing this trade-off, preferences for Democratic legislative control dominate preferences for marginal gains in descriptive representation. The findings contribute the first experimental evidence corroborating a burgeoning body of observational research arguing that partisan preferences are a central component to racial representation in modern-day American politics where the two major parties are racially polarized. 

I am currently extending and developing this work into a book project that explores, across a range of political contexts, (i) the conditions under which the political preferences and behavior of racial minorities are driven by symbolic or instrumental considerations and (ii) the conditions under which minorities are willing and able to engage in sophisticated strategic political thinking and behavior. 

The second argument that this line of research seeks to challenge is that electing a minority politician (instead of a counterfactual non-minority politician) implies electing representatives who are categorically better at advancing the political interests of that group. As racial and ethnic minorities have become closely aligned with the Democratic Party and as Democrats have become more racially liberal, it is necessary to empirically assess the added value of descriptive minority representation for minority policy representation above and beyond electing a Democrat. By comparing the behavior of Latino Democrats to that of non-Latino Democrats elected to U.S. statehouses from safe Democratic districts with competitive primary elections over a 16-year period, my work shows, despite the expectation that Democratic representation is an adequate proxy for minority policy representation, that descriptive representation continues to matter to ensure that minority policy priorities are included on legislative agendas across the U.S. states.

**The Politics of Discrimination and Intergroup Relations**

My second stream of research studies the conditions under which government and social interventions designed to reduce racial prejudice and discrimination are effective and why, and explores implications for the political economy of race and the development of racial orders. 

In an innovative, large-scale field experiment joint with Macartan Humphreys (Columbia) and Andrew Guess (Princeton) that was funded by the Russell Sage Foundation and is conditionally accepted for publication at The Journal of Politics, we conduct the first experimental test in the literature of the effectiveness of government appeals to comply with fair housing law on racial discrimination levels in the New York City rental market. We find strong evidence of discrimination against Hispanics and suggestive evidence of discrimination against Blacks. We also reveal the limits of a common government strategy to combat discrimination, even when it is implemented by a municipal government with the capacity and willingness to credibly enforce fair housing law: we find only suggestive evidence that punitive appeals communicating the costs of violating the law reduces discrimination against Hispanics, but not against Blacks. 

The findings from the housing experiment also motivate a broader need to understand the political and economic conditions under which efforts to reduce racial prejudice and discrimination are effective. In a solo-authored experiment for which data collection is under way, I explore this question from the perspective of the perceived targets of discrimination who, as aggrieved individuals, face a choice to pursue alternative avenues of legal and non-legal recourse to enforce anti-discrimination laws and norms. Specifically I explore how partisan and institutional contexts shape these choices and considerations surrounding these choices, including the expected returns to alternative avenues of recourse, beliefs about the capacity and willingness of different compliance institutions to enforce anti-discrimination laws depending on the aggrieved individual's group membership, and beliefs about the degree of procedural fairness associated with alternative grievance processes.

Other ongoing and future projects in this research stream focus on the effectiveness of social interventions to reduce racial animus in politics. I have recently begun a multi-part collaborative project with Steven White (Syracuse) to understand how selection into racialized information environments conditions the effect of anti-racist persuasion campaigns on racial political and policy attitudes.

**Experimental Methods with Applications to Political Behavior and Public Opinion**

Beyond these two research streams that anchor my research agenda, I also have a deep interest in the application of experimental methods and causal inference to answer substantive questions in political behavior and political psychology. This interest has led to a productive line of collaborative side projects (with Alan Gerber and Greg Huber) studying topics such as the heuristics used by the public when forming attitudes about politicized social insurance programs, whether subtle linguistic cues and framing strategies are effective at motivating political participation, and the reproducibility and generalizability of mobilization effects across electoral contexts and populations. 

I also conduct research on methodological challenges to inference in experimental and observational studies. These ongoing projects have grown out of challenges that have arisen in my own work, and include assessing the properties of Bayesian estimators of principal causal effects in experiments facing partial compliance (presented at PolMeth 2016), extending the principal stratification framework to estimate heterogeneous treatment effects  by subjects' potential responses to treatment on secondary outcomes (presented at APSA 2016), and exploring challenges to inference in observational studies of  immigration shocks on destination-side political outcomes.
